The monarch should be head of government
Democratically elected governments have time and again proven themselves to be short-sighted and inefficient. They need to adjust their decisions to the whims of the people and people are mostly concerned with their comfort. Therefore it is hard to make critical decisions for the long-term prosperity of the nation and the rest of the world. If the head of government was a monarch then the government would no longer have to worry about reelections. That will allow the government to establish a vision for the future and pursue long-term prosperity. The current inefficiency in the government will be countered with the more absolute power of the monarch who will have broader powers than his previous democratic counterpart. The monarch should be head of government. 

Democratically elected rulers worry about reelections. Therefore they make promises that they cannot keep and pursue short-term gain at the expense of long-term prosperity. An example of this is the recent election in the United Kingdom after which the elected prime minister executed the promised tax cuts and this led to catastrophic consequences for the UK economy. This is but one of many examples which could be made. Elected rulers need to achieve perceivable positive change for the public in order to stay popular. This is especially true in a country with many parties, like Sweden. Democratic governments often do the short-term good at the expense of the long-term good which means that democracies go through highs and lows in quick succession. A ruler who is not elected does not have to worry about pleasing the public as quickly as possible and can therefore set his sights on a long-term vision of how the country should look like in e.g. 50 years. Under this kind of government a long period of prosperity can be achieved in contrast to the highs and lows of democratic governments. 

An obvious counterargument is tyranny. That the ruler will abuse his power and do whatever he wants with the people. This can be prevented with laws that cannot be altered by the ruler.  The parliament will have the responsibility of checking that the government is doing what it should be doing and investigating corruption. An institution with the sole purpose of checking the government will be under the control of the parliament. This institution will report and the parliament will then be able to use the report as evidence in a legal case against the sitting monarch. If the monarch is found guilty he/she will be forced to abdicate but if the monarch resists he/she will instead be exiled. 

Our democratic government is very inefficient. Proposals need to be evaluated by multiple authorities and get passed in the parliament and everything takes a long time. The opposition parties could also block proposals that would benefit the party in power. This is another source of inefficiency and weakens the government's potential to reform. The parliament should vote on overarching proposals, not on every detail and not vote on laws except for the constitution. The government should be able to establish new laws if they are related to the objective which they received from the parliament. This way the government will be able to achieve a lot in a short time without being omnipotent. Thus the monarch who wields absolute power in the government will be able to execute the assignments from the parliament with brutal efficiency and we will be able to respond to changes in the world and adapt our society to current conditions. Major issues can be swiftly assessed and the best policies will be implemented with speed with the help of expert advisors. Philosophers, scientists, economists, administrators, every expert that is useful to the government. 

In summary, it is clear that there are many reasons to make the monarch head of government and that there are ways to make it work. The inefficiency and short-sightedness of democratic governments is obvious and it needs to be dealt with. There will be those who worry about the monarch becoming an all-powerful tyrant. However, this is unlikely to happen with a constitutional institution that has the power to depose the monarch if he/she misbehaves. Making the monarch head of government is possible and would solve the major problems of inefficiency, short-sightedness and as a result instability that is inherent in democratically elected governments. 
	